Add release 7.10 highlights (#63468)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/release-notes/highlights.asciidoc

CircuitBreakingException is thrown if exceeds the maximum memory allowed in this
breaker.

This size is estimated as roughly 1.5 times the size of the serialized
aggregations that need to be reduced. This estimation can be completely off for
some aggregations but it is corrected with the real size after the reduce
completes. If the reduce is successful, we update the circuit breaker to remove
the size of the source aggregations and replace the estimation with the
serialized size of the newly reduced result.

[discrete]
[[eql-case-sensitivity-operator]]
=== EQL: Case-sensitivity and the `:` operator

In 7.10, we made most EQL operators and functions case-sensitive by default.
We've also added `:`, a new case-insensitive equal operator. Designed for
security use cases, you can use the `:` operator to search for strings in
Windows event logs and other event data containing a mix of letter cases.

[source,console]
----
GET /my-index-000001/_eql/search
{
  "query": """
    process where process.executable : "c:\\windows\\system32\\cmd.exe"
  """
}
----
// TEST[setup:sec_logs]

For more information, see the {ref}/eql-syntax-comparison-operators.html[EQL

> syntax documentation].

Reviewer: This one was pretty outdated originally. @costin let me know if there are any other items we want to highlight here.

[discrete]
=== Deprecating REST API access to system indices

We are deprecating REST API access to system indices. Most REST API requests
that attempt to access system indices will return the following deprecation
warning:

[source,text]
----
this request accesses system indices: [.system_index_name], but in a future major version, direct access to system indices will be prevented by default
----

To allow projects external to {es} additional time to adjust their access
patterns, these warnings are currently enabled for snapshot builds only.

The following REST API endpoints access system indices as part of their
implementation and will not return the deprecation warning:

* `GET _cluster/health`
* `GET {index}/_recovery`
* `GET _cluster/allocation/explain`
* `GET _cluster/state`
* `POST _cluster/reroute`
* `GET {index}/_stats`
* `GET {index}/_segments`
* `GET {index}/_shard_stores`

> * `GET _cat/[indices,aliases,health,recovery,shards,segments]`

Reviewer: This feels more like a breaking change to me. @gwbrown Do you have any thoughts?

Reviewer 2: While it doesn't actually "break" anything, that may be a better place to put it. My main concern is that it goes somewhere highly visible.

Reviewer: I agree. I'll leave this here and add a related item to #63479.

[discrete]
[[add-system-read-thread-pool]]
=== New thread pools for system indices

We've added two new thread pools for system indices: `system_read` and
`system_write`. `system_read` is a `fixed` thread pool used to manage memory for
read operations performed by system indices. Similarly, `system_write` is a
`fixed` thread pool used to manage memory for write operations performed by
system indices. Both have a maximum number of threads equal to `5`
or half of the available processors, whichever is smaller.

[discrete]
[[metadata-flag-system-indices]]
=== New metadata flag for system indices

To prevent performance issues related to searches that accidentally target
system indices, we've added a new metadata flag to mark system and non-system
indices. {es} will automatically add this flag to an existing system indices

> during upgrade.

Reviewer: @jaymode I made some changes here. Do you mind reviewing to ensure everything looks good to you?

| {ref-bare}/7.0/release-highlights-7.0.0.html[7.0]

// tag::notable-highlights[]
[discrete]
[[points-in-time-for-search]]

> === Points in time (PITs) for search

Reviewer: @dnhatn @jimczi You mind reviewing this section?

[discrete]
[[eql-case-sensitivity-operator]]
=== EQL: Case-sensitivity and the `:` operator

In 7.10, we made most EQL operators and functions case-sensitive by default.
We've also added `:`, a new case-insensitive equal operator. Designed for
security use cases, you can use the `:` operator to search for strings in
Windows event logs and other event data containing a mix of letter cases.

[source,console]
----
GET /my-index-000001/_eql/search
{
  "query": """
    process where process.executable : "c:\\\\windows\\\\system32\\\\cmd.exe"
  """
}
----
// TEST[setup:sec_logs]

For more information, see the {ref}/eql-syntax.html[EQL
syntax documentation].

[discrete]
[[deprecate-rest-api-access-to-system-indices]]
=== REST API access to system indices is now deprecated

We are deprecating REST API access to system indices. Most REST API requests
that attempt to access system indices will return the following deprecation
warning:

[source,text]
----
this request accesses system indices: [.system_index_name], but in a future major version, direct access to system indices will be prevented by default
----

To allow projects external to {es} additional time to adjust their access

> patterns, these warnings are currently enabled for snapshot builds only.

Reviewer 2: These lines are incorrect and should be removed.

Reviewer: Thanks @gwbrown. Removed with d607c79fbbd.

The following REST API endpoints access system indices as part of their
implementation and will not return the deprecation warning:

* `GET _cluster/health`
* `GET {index}/_recovery`
* `GET _cluster/allocation/explain`
* `GET _cluster/state`
* `POST _cluster/reroute`
* `GET {index}/_stats`
* `GET {index}/_segments`
* `GET {index}/_shard_stores`
* `GET _cat/[indices,aliases,health,recovery,shards,segments]`

[discrete]
[[add-system-read-thread-pool]]
=== New thread pools for system indices

We've added two new thread pools for system indices: `system_read` and

> `system_write`. `system_read` is a `fixed` thread pool used to manage memory for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`system_write`. `system_read` is a `fixed` thread pool used to manage resources for
```

> read operations performed by system indices. Similarly, `system_write` is a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
read operations targeting system indices. Similarly, `system_write` is a
```

> `fixed` thread pool used to manage memory for write operations performed by

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`fixed` thread pool used to manage resources for write operations targeting
```

system indices. Both have a maximum number of threads equal to `5`
or half of the available processors, whichever is smaller.

[discrete]
[[metadata-flag-system-indices]]
=== New metadata flag for system indices

> To prevent performance issues related to searches that accidentally target

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To prevent performance issues related to searches that target
```

that attempt to access system indices will return the following deprecation
warning:

[source,text]
----
this request accesses system indices: [.system_index_name], but in a future
major version, direct access to system indices will be prevented by default
----

The following REST API endpoints access system indices as part of their
implementation and will not return the deprecation warning:

* `GET _cluster/health`
* `GET {index}/_recovery`
* `GET _cluster/allocation/explain`
* `GET _cluster/state`
* `POST _cluster/reroute`
* `GET {index}/_stats`
* `GET {index}/_segments`
* `GET {index}/_shard_stores`
* `GET _cat/[indices,aliases,health,recovery,shards,segments]`

[discrete]
[[add-system-read-thread-pool]]
=== New thread pools for system indices

We've added two new thread pools for system indices: `system_read` and
`system_write`. `system_read` is a `fixed` thread pool used to manage resources for
read operations targeting system indices. Similarly, `system_write` is a
`fixed` thread pool used to manage resources for write operations targeting
system indices. Both have a maximum number of threads equal to `5`

> or half of the available processors, whichever is smaller.

Reviewer 4: Maybe we should focus more on the user-facing value, along the lines of "This helps make sure that system indices that are critical to the Elastic Stack like `security` or `kibana` indices remain somewhat responsive when the cluster is under heavy query or indexing load."

[discrete]
[[metadata-flag-system-indices]]
=== New metadata flag for system indices

To prevent performance issues related to searches that target

> system indices, we've added a new metadata flag to mark system and non-system

Reviewer 4: How does adding a flag help prevent performance issues?

Reviewer: This is a good question. I think the answer is that we prevent requests that target system indices, which could inadvertently slow searches.

That said, I think this may be better combined with the `REST API access to system indices is deprecated` section.
